If you're managing campaigns across
platforms like Google, Microsoft, Meta,
LinkedIn, and Amazon, I can almost
guarantee reporting must be eating at
least half a day of your week. And the
worst part, you're probably still
building reports today the same way you
used to build them 3 years ago.
Exporting CSVs, building spreadsheets,
running the same pivots you ran the last
week. Well, that's what we're here to
fix today. This is PPC headaches, and
I'm going to show you three ways to
solve this reporting problem.
>> [music]
>> Hello everyone. Welcome to another
episode of PPC headaches. Today, as we
understand it, a lot of advertisers and
agencies still spend a significant
amount of their time building these
reports. They pull data from different
native platforms onto CSVs. Once they do
that, they build pivot tables and
manually align date ranges to align with
their client's requirements. Now, what
if your client asks for this report week
on week? You're doing the same activity
again and again. Now, what if this is
for a lot of clients? You're spending a
significant amount of time already
building these reports. We typically
overcast about 2 to 3 hours being spent
on one single report per week. And if
that's multiple clients, that's already
a lot of time gone into building
reports. Uh with manual effort coming
into play, it could also lead to a lot
of errors and blind spots, and that's
what we want to fix today.
The first way of doing it is using
Looker Studio. This is a free platform
that works typically when you have a
Google native connection. It works with
Google Ads campaigns. If you're looking
for a free starting point, this is a
great way to get started. Uh the
dashboard auto refreshes with real-time
data. So, that's actually one cool
feature uh with Looker Studio. When does
this break is usually when you have to
use a different connector. Now, the
interesting part is Looker Studio does
connect with a lot of data connectors,
but these could be paid connectors,
Which means you still have to own the
main own and maintain the pipeline and
pay some sort of a fee to these data
connectors. So, if the connectors break,
you still need to manually fix them and
still formatting the output is still on
you. Now, let's look at one sample of a
Looker Studio report that I built. So,
this is a report that I built recently
using Looker Studio. I'm just going to
quickly show you how we come to this.
Right. So, when I entered Looker Studio,
I could connect it with
Google Ads and I could also add multiple
different connectors like Google Sheets
and there was a bunch of other data
connectors of external platforms. We
Optimizer also supports a data
connection. Now, once you're in here,
you head into the insert section and you
insert all the data points that you want
to add. I've added different KPIs and
device performance, etc. When I do this,
uh I can do it for a specific date
range. Now, I'm going to say, let's look
at the data for the last 30 days. And
once I apply this,
the data is going to get refreshed to
that time frame. Building this report
did take me a significant amount of time
because I have to manually insert every
single chart and customize the
properties of each of it on the right.
Now, the advantage like we saw earlier
is the dynamic date range. So, when you
view and share this with your clients,
they can automatically see how different
data points look like when they change
the date range. Now, let's move on to
the next way of building a report,
which is using Kloud.
When does this really work or how I've
seen advertisers today use this is
typically pulling an exported CSV onto
Kloud and asking it to do an ad hoc
analysis and giving you quick narratives
or summaries for client calls. Now,
where does this break? It simply breaks
because there's no data feed available
at this point if you're going through
the CSV export way. Nor is there an
automation that you could do unlike what
we saw earlier with Looker Studio where
you could automate the live data to your
customers.
>> [laughter]
>> This is not built for ongoing weekly
reporting because you have to still come
back and manually export this data onto
Claude, get the data Claude or ChatGPT,
get the data and then paste it back into
your reports. We'll still look at how to
do this. So, the first step is for you
to export your data so you can see the
data points that are available. Once
you've exported it, you've got to paste
it into Claude, right? You're telling
it, "Here's my data and please analyze
it." Once that's done, you're going to
ask Claude for a summary. So, I'm going
to ask it to summarize the key
performance trends and give asking it to
give me a three-bullet point system that
I can paste in a client report.
Once you get that, you can see the kind
of
summary that Claude builds for you.
You can now export this onto your
report.
Claude also helps me understand where
this breaks. There you go, there's no
live data. This is only for a single
platform.
If you want to do it for a different
platform, you you still have to build
that CSV. And if you want to club data,
you still have to club the data
by using pivot tables. So, these are not
client ready at the moment because you
still have to share them manually. So,
those are the challenges, but if you're
looking for a quick and visual appeal of
reports, this is still a good incentive.
Now, let's look at the third way of
building a report through Optimizer.
Now, the advantage of using a platform
like Optimizer is that it works with
multi-channel reporting. You can report
on platforms like Google, Microsoft,
Meta, LinkedIn, Amazon all in one place.
You can combine data from cross
platforms in an easy fashion. And these
are built as templates, right? Once you
have built them, you don't need to worry
about modifying or adjusting them time
and again. They're automatically going
to go out to your clients on a schedule.
You can also white label them by adding
your and your clients' logos
and your domains as well. And finally,
we also have an AI sidekick within the
platform that helps you build these
reports very quickly. And finally, we we
have an MCP connection that helps you
pull data into your native ad platforms
like Cloud and ChatGPT that makes using
Optimizer even more powerful. Let's
quickly look at how to build a report in
Optimizer.
Once you're in the reporting section,
which you'll find on the left side, you
will be able to create reports, use
pre-built reports. You also have an
option for annual reports.
Once you're here, like I said, you can
either use it. When you're creating a
custom template, you can either create a
report for single account platforms like
Google, Microsoft, Facebook, etc. Or you
could use a multi-account report where
you pull data from multiple platforms.
Now, it gets even better. You could
easily create reports using AI. So, I'm
just going to use the AI option to build
a report in quick time and show you how
that works.
So, let's just generate a report for
account performance or maybe we could do
an account summary in the last 30 days.
So, it's already pulled up different
data points that it's going to add like
the KPIs, the quality score, performance
based on devices, networks. Some of
these we already saw on Looker Studio.
That took us quite a lot of time to
build. Uh I obviously didn't walk uh you
through the process that I uh spent.
But, it did take me a significant amount
of time to build. But, you can see the
time it this one took to build.
So, when we quickly preview the report,
there you go, right? So, it's already
picking my account, it's pulling It's
It's pulling my KPIs,
my quality score, device performance, so
on and so forth. So, I can keep just
scrolling through this report and you
will see a lot of data points available.
You also have this sidekick assistant
with you like we spoke about that where
you can ask certain questions like
summary or a highlight of the three
areas that are performing well so on and
so forth.
We will also now quickly jump on to see
how an Optimizer MCP connection with
platforms like Claude can help. We
support Claude and ChatGPT today.
So this is also quick and easy way for
you to get quick summaries or you could
also for the kind of prompts you use
build an entire elaborate report right
within your native platforms AI
platforms rather. So these are the three
platforms we looked at Looker Studio
with connectors, AI tools like Claude,
and finally Optimizer. Now the live data
feed is available only for Google when
you when you talk about Looker Studio.
Uh
with AI tools you you've got to build
the manual export. There's no uh live
data feed. Optimizer pulls data from all
your platforms. Uh multi-channel is a
paid add-on Studio, but it's built in
with Optimizer. You can schedule reports
with both Looker and Optimizer. The
setup effort varies in each of these
cases uh depending on the kind of use
cases you bring bring home. And finally,
the maintenance is something that's
super easy when you compare it to
platforms like Optimizer versus the kind
of effort it [clears throat] would take
with Looker Studio and AI tools.
If you're looking for a free start when
only looking to work with Google Ads,
then Looker Studio is a good and
effective way to build reports, although
time-consuming. The second way is if
you're building an ad hoc report that
you're just looking for internal
reporting, then AI platforms could come
in pretty handy. And finally, if you're
looking for a full solution where you
can build reports and temp templateize
them and actually send them out to your
clients on a schedule, a solution like
Optimizer would be the preferred choice.
And if you're looking for a free trial
to test the product, you should find the
link in the description. Thank you so
much and see you again in another
episode.